What is CSS?
- CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets
- CSS describes how HTML elements are to be displayed on screen, paper, or in
  other media
- CSS saves a lot of work. It can control the layout of multiple web pages all
  at once
- External stylesheets are stored in CSS files

CSS is used to define styles for your web pages, including the design, layout
and variations in display for different devices and screen sizes.

HTML was NEVER intended to contain tags for formatting a web page! HTML was
created to describe the content of a web page. CSS removed the style formatting
from the HTML page!

The style definitions are normally saved in external .css files. With an
external stylesheet file, you can change the look of an entire website by
changing just one file!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CSS Syntax

A CSS rule-set consists of a selector and a declaration block:

   SELECTOR DECLARATION (property:value;)

The selector points to the HTML element you want to style.

The declaration block contains one or more declarations separated by
semicolons.

Each declaration includes a CSS property name and a value, separated by a
colon.

A CSS declaration always ends with a semicolon, and declaration blocks are
surrounded by curly braces. 

A CSS comment starts with /* and ends with */. Comments can also span multiple
lines

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CSS Selectors

CSS selectors are used to "find" (or select) the HTML elements you want to
style.

We can divide CSS selectors into five categories:

   - Simple selectors
     select elements based on name, id, class
     Examples:
      - p{color:black;}
      - #myid {color:black;}
      - .myclass {color:black;}
      - p.myclass {color:black;}
      - <p class="myclass1 myclass2">
      - (universal) * {color:black;}
      - (grouping) p, h1, h2 {color:black;}

   - Combinator selectors
     select elements based on a specific relationship between them

   - Pseudo-class selectors
     select elements based on a certain state

   - Pseudo-elements selectors
     select and style a part of an element

   - Attribute selectors
   select elements based on an attribute or attribute value

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Nota:

The id attribute specifies a unique id for an HTML element (the value must be
unique within the HTML document).

The id value can be used by CSS and JavaScript to perform certain tasks for the
element with the specific id value.

The HTML class attribute is used to define equal styles for elements with the
same class name.

So, all HTML elements with the same class attribute will get the same style.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Se você usar IDs, o CSS Lint irá acusar o seu CSS de quebrar a regra "Disallow
IDs in selectors" (Proibir ID's em seletores).

Não é à toa que o slogan do CSS Lint é "Will hurt your feelings" ("Irá ferir os
seus sentimentos").

De acordo com a documentação da regra:

Por anos, desenvolvedores têm tratado IDs como um modo de dizer "aquela coisa!"
Todavia, IDs têm um efeito colateral: eles devem ser únicos e não podem ser
reutilizados. Você poderia em potencial estilizar todos os elementos de sua
página utilizando seletores com ID, mas você perderia muito dos benefícios do
CSS no processo.

Um dos beneficios do CSS é a habilidade de reusar regras de estilo em múltiplos
lugares. Quando você começa a utilizar seletores com ID, você está
automaticamente limitando aquele estilo a um único elemento.

Eu mesmo utilizo IDs em seletores e apesar de compreender e concordar com o
argumento, pessoalmente não considero uma regra tão fundamental que não possa
ser ignorada em alguns casos.

A seção "Leitura Adicional" da documentação citada inclui dois artigos que
atacam com veemência o uso de IDs em seletores. Um dos artigos atraiu grande
quantidade dde comentários defendendo o uso de IDs em seletores:

 - Don't use IDs in CSS selectors?
 - Don't use ID selectors in CSS

Eu pessoalmente recomendo evitar o uso de IDs. Porém, diferente da turma que
estou citando, eu não acho que é uma "abominação terrivelmente monstruosa" a
sua utilização. Melhor evitar, mas se usar de vez em quando, tudo bem! :-) É
assim que eu penso. Tem coisas mais sérias com as quais se preocupar...